# Chapter 2

This repository contains MATLAB and Python code for replicating Chapter 2 "Testing overidentifying restrictions with weak instruments in the consumption lifecycle model" of the Thesis "Estimation and Inference with Weak Instruments".

## Abstract

We study the empirical performance of the $J$ (Hansen, 1982) and Kleibergen-Paap ($KP$) (Kleibergen \& Paap, 2006) tests for overidentifying restrictions under weak instruments and non-homoskedastic errors. We consider the multi-country datasets of Yogo (2004) and Pozzi (2022), both of which estimate the elasticity of intertemporal substitution in lifecycle consumption models. As the regression errors are constructed as errors in expectations of future variables, they are naturally orthogonal to all macroeconomic variables included in the information set at time $t$. Lagged variables therefore theoretically provide valid instruments, and thus we expect the null hypothesis of overidentifying restrictions to hold. These instruments however are frequently poorly correlated with contemporaneous endogenous variables. We show that in specifications where instruments are strong, both test statistics are numerically extremely similar, but when instruments are weak, $J$ frequently rejects the null, whereas $KP$ does not. Given the natural orthogonality of the errors, this suggests that that $J$ suffers from an over-rejection problem, whereas $KP$ does not. We argue that the $KP$ test should be used by empirical researchers for testing overidentifying restrictions instead of currently ubiquitous $J$-test. 
